# Queens-ICons-App
The team’s objective in this project is to develop a mobile application to allow students to borrow equipment at the Integrated Learning Centre (ILC) in Beamish-Munro Hall at Queen’s University in Kingston, Ontario. The app would replace the current in-person interaction and collateral exchange with the Integrated Constables (iCons). iCons are engineering students who volunteer as a resource to help undergraduate students with their studies. One of the iCons’ many services is to allow students to rent equipment in the ILC. The app must allow students to view the items available and select which ones they would like to borrow, and the app should aid iCons in finding the student to deliver the equipment. The project is estimated to cost $99 per year to keep the app in the Apple App Store.  
To accomplish these requirements, three design options were considered. The first option is to develop an app using XCode, Apple’s programming language used to develop software for iOS. XCode has many advantages, including the ability for team members to work on the app simultaneously, an intuitive programming environment requiring only basic coding experience, and numerous premade functions to simplify the construction of a user interface. The primary disadvantage is that it is only compatible with iOS devices and would be unavailable to Android users. The second solution is to design the app in MIT App Inventor, which works similarly to XCode but uses logic blocks with selectable options rather than code, severely limiting data handling and troubleshooting capabilities. MIT App Inventor also does not allow multiple contributors to work simultaneously and is only compatible with Android systems. The third option is to develop a website instead of an app. This would have all the capabilities of the first solution, while allowing access from iOS, Android, or a computer. 
The three options were compared based on accessibility, capabilities, the prerequisite technical knowledge required by the team, cost, usability, and update flexibility. Based on these criteria, it was determined that the website would be the optimal solution, with the XCode app a close second. However, upon discussion with the client, the website option was rejected, and XCode was selected. To determine what would be the most user-friendly experience for Queen’s engineering students, the team created a survey asking questions regarding the front end of the app. Front-end refers to what the user sees when interacting with the application, such as the user interface. To test the application, the team used debuggers in the XCode environment to guarantee that the application would operate as expected.


